[Music]
here we go
five riddles only people with fresh
thinking can crack like a fresh egg oh
wait does that mean that fresh thinking
comes from egg heads no not really
[Music]
people tend to think that intelligence
is the only thing you need to solve a
difficult problem however tons of
studies show that it's the ability to
think outside the box that can get you
out of almost any situation do you think
you have it in you let's see whether
your unique perspective will be able to
crack some of the hardest riddles out
there but before we start don't forget
to subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications so that you won't
miss any of our new videos
okay egg heads
here's riddle number one a smooth
criminal on November 24th 1971 a man
calling himself dan Cooper bought a
plane ticket in Seattle shortly after
the 727 jet took off Cooper showed the
flight attendant his briefcase claiming
that there was a bomb inside and that he
was hijacking the plane after that he
demanded $200,000 and four parachutes
two primary ones and two reserves when
the plane landed in Seattle the police
had the parachutes and money brought to
the hijacker once he got what he asked
for he let the passengers go and ordered
the plane to take off again a bit later
while the aircraft was in flight Cooper
parachuted out of it somewhere over the
forests of Washington State this
incident actually happened and to this
day people have no idea who this man
really was and what happened to him
after the hijacking so the question is
simple why did Cooper ask for two
primary parachutes and not just one you
have 15 seconds to figure it out
[Music]
you think you know the answer it's
actually not that hard according to US
laws at that time hijacking a plane was
a crime punishable by death dan Cooper
knew that there was a high probability
that the police would give him a faulty
parachute he demanded two primary ones
so that the police would think that he
was going to take a hostage with him
and his plan worked of course the police
couldn't risk an innocent persons life
so they gave Cooper two perfectly
functioning parachutes case closed
well not yet riddle number two two
companies imagine that you're a highly
sought after expert in your field and
two amazing companies have offered you a
job sounds like a dream come true
doesn't it hmm not so fast because now
you have to make a choice both companies
are offering you a starting wage of
$180,000 a year however if everything
goes well the first company is willing
to give you a $20,000 raise every year
the second company will give you a
$5,000 raise every six months which
offer would you choose you have 15
seconds to weigh your options what do
you think the first company is obviously
better right wrong if you chose the
second company Congrats you definitely
know how to rake in more cash let's
break it down and see what you'd come
out with after three years in each
company
in the first company you'd have $180,000
after the first year then $200,000 in
the second year and $220,000 in the
third year adding it all together makes
$600,000 for three years now for the
second company for the first six months
you'll get $90,000 then you'll get
$95,000 for the second half of the first
year the first half of year two will
bring you $100,000 and the second half
one hundred and five thousand dollars
finally you'll get paid 110 thousand
dollars for the first half of the third
year and 115 thousand dollars for the
second half add it all together and
you've got six hundred fifteen thousand
dollars in this case your out-of-the-box
thinking has given you an extra $15,000
a year
nice riddle number three
abrini baker this story happened a long
long time ago before we had modern
conveniences like electricity and
gadgets a baker decided to make a cake
for his daughter's birthday according to
the recipe it should stay in the oven
for exactly 15 minutes but here's the
catch the Baker's old clock broke and he
didn't have time to find a new one his
daughter would be home in just a half an
hour and he wanted to surprise her with
her lovely homemade cake
the only thing he had was to hourglasses
one of which was for seven minutes and
the other was for 11 minutes the Baker
was a very smart man and still managed
to make one of the most delicious cakes
ever he even did it before his daughter
got home so how did he pull that off
[Music]
to bake the perfect cake
he turned both of the our glasses upside
down when all the sand from the top part
of the 7-minute glass had fallen through
it was time to put the cake in the oven
after 4 minutes when the sand from the
top part of the 11-minute glass had
emptied out as well the Baker simply
turned that glass upside down once again
for another 11 minutes four minutes on
the first turning and eleven minutes on
the second make the 15 minutes he needed
see easy as pie Oh
I mean piece of cake riddle number four
an unlucky robber one day a thief
decided to rob the local bank he came up
with a brilliant plan to dress up as one
of the bank tellers
and try to sneak into the vault as he
was approaching the vault he saw a
security guard standing right in front
of the door the robber hadn't
anticipated this so he hid and watched
the guard carefully when one of the
actual bank tellers walked up to the
door the security guard said 12 the
worker answered 6 and got in then
another teller came up to the vault when
the security guard said 6 the person
answered 3 and was granted access
oh I've totally got this thought the
thief and he nonchalantly walked up to
the security guard when the guard said
10 the robber confidently answered five
he was arrested immediately so why was
the thief's answer wrong and what should
he have answered instead your 15 seconds
start now
[Music]
any ideas the correct response has to do
with a number of the letters in the word
12 has six letters so the answer is six
six in turn has three letters so the
answer is three as four ten well you can
see by now that the robber should have
said three looks like he wasn't as
brilliant as he thought
but once again crime doesn't pay riddle
number five beauty and the brain there
once was a baron who had gone broke and
lost all his fortune the only thing he
had was his two daughters Elsa and Gerda
Elsa was drop-dead gorgeous
while Gerda was smart as a whip now
where did that expression come from
smart as a whip
normally whipping things or people is
bad and not all that smart however I
digress back to the story the ruler of a
nearby Kingdom fell in love with
beautiful Elsa and invited her to dinner
in his palace Elsa decided to bring her
clever sister along the ruler was old
and ugly and he knew that he had no
chance of winning else's heart he also
knew that Gerda really loved riddles and
decided to risk everything by striking a
deal with the sisters the agreement went
like this
the old man would tie back each of the
sisters hair with either a red or gold
ribbon they could both get matching
ribbons or different ones the girls
couldn't give any signals hints or
phrases to help the other guess the
color of their ribbon they would dine in
silence in a room with no mirrors after
dinner was over he would ask each of the
sisters what color ribbon was in her
hair
if they both guessed correctly they'd go
home with all the gold and jewels they
could carry if one of them guessed
correctly the ruler would give the
winning sister a pearl necklace and
finally if neither of them guessed
correctly he would marry Elsa wow this
is so like let's make a deal
Goethe talked it over with her sister
and they both agreed to play needless to
say Elsa was saved from such an
unpleasant marriage but how did Goethe
find a way to win now it's your turn to
do the guessing you've got 15 seconds
[Music]
this one is still a mystery to us did
you manage to crack it then please leave
your answer in the comments below maybe
together we can finally figure out
exactly how goethe outsmarted the old
boy so how many of these riddles did you
Soph tell us in the comments below don't
forget to click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
you